Executive Summary

The projected plant is designed to produce 63 kilotons annually (KTA) of hydrogen gas, with a composition of 0.99999 wt % H2 and at a pressure of 30 bar, which will be sold for $1,300 per metric ton (MT). The goal of this design is to provide a sustainable fuel source for hydrogen fuel cell electric vehicles (HFCEVs). High purity hydrogen gas is traditionally made using steam-methane reforming followed by a water gas shift reaction. Our design incorporates these same reactions, and additionally, all CO2 produced by the process is isolated and sequestered to eliminate greenhouse gas emissions. These reactions are performed in two packed bed reactors (PBRs) that are placed in series. According to the reaction kinetics and various economic evaluations, the optimal reaction conditions were determined to be 680 °C and 20 bar for steam methane reforming, and 500 °C and 20 bar for the water gas shift reaction. The selected conditions maximize profit and reduce stress on the system, while still producing the specified amount of hydrogen gas. Pure water at 25 °C and atmospheric pressure is purchased for $0.05 per MT and is pumped through a network of heat exchangers and a direct-fired boiler before being mixed with the natural gas feed. The natural gas feed is purchased for $132 per MT and is composed of 96 wt % CH4, 2 wt % H¬2, and 2 wt % CO¬2. The gas mixture is heated in a furnace and enters the first reactor at 680 °C and 20 bar. Natural gas is fed to the system at a rate of 159 million (MM) kg per year, and water is fed at a rate of 603 MM kg per year. This corresponds to the selected feed molar ratio (MR) of 3:1. The proposed design will require a 2-year construction period with a TCI of $132 MM, paid by a 10-year bond at a rate of 4 %. After 12 years of operation at a tax rate of 27%, the plant is projected to have an NPV of -$4.1 MM and an NPV% of -0.21%. The resultant economics discourage construction and operation of the hydrogen plant. However, due to the environmental advantages of a CO2-neutral fuel source, we conclude that the sale price of the hydrogen product can be increased by 8.0% to $1,404 per MT, which will yield a positive NPVproj of $22.3 MM after 12 years. 
# Sustainable_Hydrogen_Production_Plant
